welcome to moviecaps
today i will show you a drama sci-fi
thriller film from 2011 titled take
shelter
spoilers ahead
watch out and take care
the movie begins in ohio with curtis
having an apocalyptic dream visual and
auditory hallucinations of rain like
fresh motor oil he hides all of this
from his wife samantha and their deaf
daughter hannah after having breakfast
and discussing their day plans curtis
departs for work at a construction
company because of heavy rainfall curtis
job falls short and he visits a bar with
his friends
after driving his friend duart home late
at night they are talking inside the car
about curtis having a wonderful life
things aren't as pretty as they always
seem he answers before duart's wife
comes to pick him up
curtis gets home checks on his daughter
samantha hugs him from behind and tells
that hannah still doesn't play with
other children and she is worried about
her and also asks curtis to clean up the
trash pile in the back
curtis is picking up the trash pile a
massive storm is coming lightning hits
the ground and the dog is barking like
he has rabies the dog attacks curtis and
he wakes up
it was another one of his dreams he sits
at the table and gets worried about
their dog acting up like in his dream at
work curtis is still looking at his hand
feeling anxious about his vision not
paying attention to what his superiors
are briefing him on before continuing
work curtis visits a store to buy a
doghouse and a fence for their dog
as they continue work curtis sees a
swarm of blackbirds he starts to sense
that it might be an omen
at home curtis forgot about their visit
to hannah's deaf school to spend time
with her
samantha is mildly disappointed
all of curtis's apocalyptic dreams
always start with heavy rain that has
the substance of oil this one was no
exception
with him driving hannah no road
visibility he crashes and has a
hallucination of someone taking his
daughter and strangling him which makes
him wake up gasping for air
samantha and hannah are going to their
sales booth while curtis stays home
because he looks sick
curtis builds his dog a fence dog house
and apologizes to him it just has to be
like that for now
he finds a key for the shelter and
checks its condition
at the sales booth samantha is annoyed
at a customer that underpriced her
product but still makes the sale for
customers price meaning money is an
issue for them
samantha asks curtis why he put his dog
outside he has always been an inside dog
without giving much of an explanation he
says that it's his dog and he will be
out
a moment later curtis is having another
nightmare it's raining and his daughter
is looking outside through the window as
curtis comes closer a man is standing
there it scares him the ground starts to
shake electricity goes off the man from
outside is trying to break in the whole
furniture levitates as if the house is
falling curtis looks like he is in
excruciating pain
he wakes up and realizes he has wetted
the bed
his wife comes in still worried about
him not feeling well asks if she should
cancel today's dinner curtis says it's
okay
he will be fine
after cleaning up bed sheets he takes
his daughter to the library and gets a
book on mental illness while heading
home curtis visits a shop and stocks up
on cam provisions back at home samantha
is with guests at the table
when he arrives she schools him for
being late curtis is disappointed
he tells everyone at the table that he
is going to clean up the shelter in the
morning he sees a doctor whom he asks
for medicine for sleep
since he had four restless nights the
doctor said it's too early to judge
still after explaining his situation he
gives him a prescription and a number
for a psychiatrist in columbus
curtis takes the sleeping pills and it
looks like they worked wonders finally a
calm night's sleep
at the table his wife even points out
that he looks much better at his job
curtis gets scared by the sound of
thunder but duarte doesn't hear anything
and the skies are clear
he started having a panic attack even
vomiting so he took off his job
curtis's anxiety is taking a turn so he
decides to channel it into building a
shelter
he buys a container and later visits his
mom sarah who has paranoid schizophrenia
it surfaced in her about the same age as
curtis is now
he decided to know how it all started
for her thinking maybe he also is
mentally ill as curtis is filling up his
car with gas he calls to cancel an
appointment with a psychiatrist in
columbus because it's far and money is
tight however he is still calculating
his expenses for shelter construction
later he is taking a home improvement
loan he can ill afford to start building
the shelter without telling his wife
curtis tells duart about his idea to
build a shelter and asks for his help
duart asks if he is all right he answers
that he is not curtis sees a counselor
at a free clinic with whom he talks
about his family's psychological history
unfortunately the counselor cannot help
curtis since she is not a certified
psychotherapist
curtis has difficulty distinguishing his
hallucinations from reality with his
wife and daughter in the backseat he
asks is anyone seeing this
lightning striking the ground
curtis breaks work rules by borrowing
equipment from his work and his friend
duart is helping him with the shelter
construction
samantha returns home from the booth
sale and is mildly disappointed at
curtis for not mentioning shelter
construction or home improvement loan
he still refuses to explain to her his
nightmares
samantha calls an ambulance after curtis
takes more than the prescribed dose of a
sedative and has a seizure he recovers
then finally explains the truth to her
including his dreams
curtis describes it as well as he can
and hopes that samantha will understand
his recent behavior
he also explains his last vision where
do art attacked him with a pickaxe
following that curtis decided to go to
higher ups and ask to remove duart from
his crew
he and samantha prepare for the cochlear
implant surgery hannah will undergo in
six weeks paid by curtis's work
insurance
curtis's brother comes to visit kale
he gives him his dog
in another dream curtis hears thunder
and his wife is standing soaked in the
kitchen staring at him without a word
and behind her a knife
he becomes scared of his wife
having been informed of the borrowed
work equipment curtis's boss fires him
and gives him only two weeks worth of
medical insurance benefits
samantha slaps him and leaves with their
daughter after discovering that his
counselor at the free clinic has
suddenly transferred and been replaced
with a new one he walks out tensions
linger between curtis and samantha over
his job loss at such a crucial time for
their family curtis gets worried that
samantha might leave him so curtis
agrees to see an actual psychiatrist and
samantha demands that they attend a
social function so she can restore some
sense of normalcy to their strained
increasingly isolated life using the
money they save for the beach trip while
attending the lions club community
canteen a bitter duart confronts curtis
for cutting him loose after all they've
been through
duarte is provoked and punches him
enraged curtis knocks duart to the floor
overturns a table and unleashes a
frightening verbal tirade upon everyone
present
he prophetically shouts that a
devastating storm is coming insisting
that none of them is prepared he is
putting the whole neighborhood against
them while curtis is fixing his car
hannah wanders off to the street he
grabs her and sees a swarm of black
birds flying in a storm approaching
birds start suddenly falling from the
sky and a tornado warning is hurt it was
a dream except for the tornado warning
sound
they grab hannah and head to the shelter
equipping the gas masks they fall asleep
samantha wakes curtis up prompting him
to take off the mask
she asks him to open the door but he
asserts that the storm isn't over yet
samantha pleads to open the door that
it's his imagination outside his calm
after a tense standoff curtis throws
open the doors into the blinding sun a
strong but bearable storm has passed and
neighbors are cleaning up broken tree
limbs and other yard debris as power
company trucks restore electricity along
the street
a psychiatrist advises the couple to go
through with their planned annual beach
vacation but that curtis will need to
get psychiatric care and a facility away
from his family upon their return
at myrtle beach while curtis is building
sandcastles with hannah she signs the
word storm
as samantha exits their beach house the
thick oily rain that curtis spoke of
begins to fall staining her outstretched
hand
samantha looks up to a bigger version of
the ominous storm clouds curtis had seen
massing over the ocean tornado-like
waterspouts reached down to the ocean's
surface and the tide pulls back as a
tsunami looms in the distance
samantha and curtis exchange glances as
samantha assuringly whispers okay the
scene cuts to black leaving the truth of
the reality a mystery
thank you for watching
subscribe if you'd like to see more
videos like this